# Programming Well

Bash scripts tend to be ad-hoc and written for a specific purpose at a
particular time. These scripts just need to work, no matter how arcane the
syntax or how obscure the code is. As these scripts accumulate, it become
difficult to modify them and make them work together. While Bash is certainly
not intended for writing highly structured and complex programs, it is still
worthwhile to write clear and well-documented Bash code, because pieces of
code are read much more often than they are written.

Accordingly, this guide is not a collection of recipes or examples from which
snippets can be copied-and-pasted (the Internet abounds with such resources);
rather, this guide will introduce you to Bash programming using modern
language features that reduce human errors and unexpected behaviours. This
goal, unfortunately, clashes with the competing desire to write portable code
that works across shells. Bash is one of several shell programming languages
and extends the set of [POSIX Shell Command Language standards][1]. Frankly,
we are not interested in writing shell scripts; we are interested in writing
Bash scripts. Bash is open source and runs across most platforms. Despite that
we will be using Bash-specific features, our scripts will run on all platforms
on which Bash can be installed. When multiple ways to code a particular task
exists, we will choose the clearest and simplest, even if they use
Bash-specific features. We will, however, attempt to write Linux platform
independent code as much as feasible. To emphasize, the foremost objective of
this guide is to learn to write robust code that is easy to troubleshoot when
unanticipated problems arise.

Bash is often purported to be an easy programming language to learn, but has
been a source of frustration for me when I first started using it. Hopefully,
this guide will help you embark on the right course.


[1]: http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/009695399/utilities/xcu_chap02.html
